---
layout: default
title:  "On-Set DIT"
date:   2023-12-12 16:33:13 +0000
categories: terms
---


# On-Set DIT

A DIT on set, often known as a "Livegrade DIT" owing to the specific software utilized, is widely recommended, particularly for high-end productions where meticulous color management is crucial. In this specialized role, the technician actively engages with a live feed from the camera, employing a series of precise color transforms within an approved color management system tailored to the project's requirements.

Within the context of on-set operations, the division of responsibilities becomes crucial for optimizing workflow. Typically, data management tasks are entrusted to an assistant or a dedicated data manager, often supported by a dailies lab. This strategic allocation of responsibilities ensures that the DIT can focus on real-time color adjustments and image enhancement without being encumbered by data management duties.

Conversely, the practice of managing data on a mobile cart that traverses the set and various locations is discouraged. This approach is considered suboptimal, as it may not only compromise the integrity of the data but also limit the technician's capabilities, particularly in terms of comprehensive image analysis. By centralizing data management responsibilities and adhering to a more controlled environment, the Livegrade DIT can concentrate on refining and perfecting the visual aspects of the production, ultimately contributing to the overall quality of the final product.